You guys go back to the course so in this lecture Let's talk about taking the name of your business.
Now how much does a name really matter.
Well it depends I say I think in a lot of cases a really good name can really help you and you get a
lot of cases over the bad days.
It could really seriously hurt you.
In most cases I would say your name probably falls in the middle where it doesn't really help you.
It doesn't really hurt you.
But there's some specific guidelines that you should follow to make it easier and to make sure that
you pick something that is a negative asset like a liability you know a great name it can do a lot of
things for you.
It can make you sound established it can make you sound trendy or with it if you make you sound like
your high growth.
There's a lot of subconscious associations on names.
Now you have to understand a lot of people that the first thing they hear is going to be your name.
So how do you want them to feel now a bad name it can actually make you sound honest stablished it can
make you sound unprofessional it can make even sound immature done incorrectly and it can make it sound
like like something that's not interesting.
Now let me tell you Don't worry about it in the sense that if you pick a name you're worried about being
like a miner.
Grenades can blow up very very hard to pick a name it's really going to create a lot of problems for.
And in most cases a name that's bad might only be bad for one specific group of people and then it obviously
depends on whether or not you're targeting that specific group of people.
So this is something that a lot of people are starting their development business they worry about all
the time.
So let's walk through it try to make it as easy as possible.
So the first technique you can use is by using a literal name.
Now literally I mean is that you will literally describe something about your business in your name.
You can use adjectives you can use just statements.
Let's say give an example.
You're located in California and that location is very important to you.
You could say California death.
Maybe if you're in a specific city you could use the same name in your name.
That really helps you when you're targeting people that are in your area.
Now if you want to specialize in something that's covered previously in the course.
Pick something that is specific to what you're specializing in if you're specializing in a vertical
like say medicine you might be called something along the lines of medical web.
Try to combine some work that's associated with your Birchall.
Now if you're specializing in technology then you probably want to use some portion of the name of the
technology in your name if you use code igniter maybe you'll call yourself igniter labs.
Sure that's taken.
Now another strategy that you can go after is building your name based off of its potential as if you're
not aware.
Search Engine Optimization this case we're just talking about Google now trying to think of who your
customer base is going to be.
And a lot of cases you have no idea but a lot of you out there have a very good idea about who your
customer base is potentially going to be specially if you are specializing now trying to think of something
they're going to be searching a lot terms they use or something that they probably are interested in
or want.
Now trying to use the words from that and try to incorporate those in your title if you want to go after
people who want cheap WordPress development.
Maybe you want a clue.
A couple of those three words in your title maybe you just go with cheap WordPress development.
If you want to specialize in just converting design into HDMI you'll remember we talked about that being
part of the part of the development layers that maybe you want to call it something similar to what
someone would search for looking for it maybe you call yourself BSD till web.
Maybe you call yourself design to web something like that.
Now if done correctly and you have narrowed down your market really well and give you a huge boost Google
afterall is going to obviously give a lot of weight to someone who has the their domain name is similar
to the keyword.
That means that that Kokanee or that Web site is probably very serious.
But even the person who search for those keywords.
Another strategy is to use adjectives or feelings.
Pick a word that conveys the type of feeling you want your customer to feel when they hear your name.
Now this is something that you see constantly in like real estate.
People always add an adjective to whatever they want you to feel about the listing.
Now this also works for company names.
You can use a pair of adjectives if you want to know if you want the person to feel like this is just
right.
Call it just right development.
If you want them to feel like this could be perfect perfect development there's a lot of ways you can
do this you can even experiment with nontraditional words like cozy cozy might imply boutique it might
imply trustworthiness.
You can pick a lot of different adjectives and just try it out with a point and you're going for how
that word makes you feel even if it's not necessarily relevant.
A technology company.
Now the last concept I'll cover that can help you along this road is what's called a Brandel.
Now I Brandel is a word that has absolutely no meaning it's usually jibberish and it has absolutely
no connotation associated with it.
A brand is something that you can kind of white label it's a blank slate.
If I heard it nothing would register in my head maybe whatever language sounds like that's about it.
So Mock's or zero with an X or there's a e-mail attachment company called X I a you know in Csound and
dines outgunning those are Randles.
Now the reason why you pick a Brandel is if you plan to expand to do a lot of different things and so
you don't want to be pigeonholed in one area.
If you pick a specific name or a specialization specific name you're kind of stuck with that name and
you have to changing it if you expand into other things.
You also use a brand that if you wanted to imply that this was like a start up or a all around technology
company and you didn't want to just limit yourself to thinking it's a development company that typically
works against you people when they work with the development company and know that that's your specialization
right.
But if it's a sport do you do decide that you do other things and perhaps a brand dibbles a better idea.
Now obviously the downsides are pretty obvious because you're missing the opportunity to use some type
of word to get some feeling or thought across but also getting brand recognition can be quite difficult
especially if you have a general strategy.
So you have a group of people and a couple of you can use your service.
How many times do they have to hear that word before it has meaning to someone who isn't one of your
customers.
It's very hard to do that.
And if you do pick a brain of all.
You know honestly as I said Gosset can you please make something that's somewhat pronounceable if you
can't turnout's it is a horrible horrible idea.
Now it's somewhat enjoyable to watch your clients cringe and like trying to get the word out correctly
that you don't ever have to correct them.
But that's actually kind of a problem because people who have a problem describing the name or pronouncing
the name are less likely to share it or less likely to communicate it to other people which is something
that you're going to highly.
You're always going to want to rely on.
Now let's talk a little bit about suffixes and what have you with suffix.
I mean that descriptor that's usually attached at the end of a company name and also prefixes are things
that can be attached to the beginning but there are usually these little things that are called modifiers.
On top of your name.
So a lot of times people pick say one of the things we just went over.
Maybe they pick an adjective and say that they take perfect and then they pick a suffix like agency
or labs or company or firm or anything like that.
So now let me cover just a little bit about what each one of those means.
You know you can't go wrong by picking any one of these but you might unintentionally imply things that
you didn't mean to you.
So now studio calling yourself a web or mobile studio Studio implies that you're small like a studio
right.
It also implies that your boutique and everything you do is done in-house that's typically the association
people get with studio a thousand person company cannot be a studio Studio.
Typically a core group of people that work together really long time and haven't had a very specific
way that they work and build things.
Now you could use the word labs as a suffix but Louds what that implies is that you're building complex
technology means that you're building things in a little bit more in the forefront.
It's not like you're just building copycats of Facebook it's more like you're building out algorithms
that haven't been made before and a lot of experimental things.
Now if you want to pitch your uniqueness that's great and if you have other projects you're pursuing
that could be a good name choice.
Now the downside of using the word labs that people are going to assume that you have other projects
so we're going to see maybe you don't specialize in development maybe you do a lot of different things
and this development just one of them.
Another word is Agency and agency implies that you do a lot of other things and development is just
one of them.
Typically an agency is a big company.
Typically the agency's been around for a while.
And typically the agency will cover a lot of different things.
They'll cover public relations or cover marketing.
They'll cover development design.
They can do a lot of different things now to cover one prefix really quickly.
And this is just something that I see a lot of people get confused.
Digital Digital is something that people call themselves ok so like a digital agency digital would imply
that you do anything on media.
Now when I say the media people then are going to think probably that you also do your work you potentially
do animation work.
It really is just a much broader term and it's something I don't typically use unless you also are working
in different of media.
OK.
So if you are stuck you can't think of anything to help you through.
Honestly I understand when I did this too it took me forever to come up with a name.
In fact I used a name that was like a stopgap name we call it 47 squares.
And the reason why we call it 47 squares was we were.
I think we were making fun of 37 Signals right because 37 Signals has thirty seven that's a really arbitrary
number.
So clearly 47 is better than 37 right.
What's a signal a square is better.
That was just a joke and so we use that as a stopgap pretty much to cover all of our projects until
we came up with a name that actually make more sense.
Now one thing you need to keep in mind though when you are looking at picking a name will be your domain
availability.
That's one of the biggest things.
And I think that should be 90 percent of what goes into this if you pick a name and you'll love it.
I'd say nine times out of 10 you're not going to have the domain available.
So you really need to focus on things that are available.
This leads me into some tools that you can use that can really help you come up with a name much faster
and because they're tools in their own line it can help you with that domain availability issue.
So one example is called name mesh dot com.
It's actually a new Web site that I got suggested to from a student at one of my other courses so you're
out there.
Good job.
It's actually a really cool Web site.
What it does is that you just plug in adjectives and it will output all whole different combination
of different possible names and not even do with your contortions to your name and there's a fun section.
So try that one out.
If you're just setting here and you can think of four or five things that you want to associate with
your business try out every single one.
Also his domain validated so I can suggest something if the domain is not.
Another one you can use is domain her and I'll put it up on the screen here Mainer is another one.
And the reason why I use this on is because it's got to a point where domains are so incredibly saturated
that it's really hard to sing of a name that isn't already purchased.
And so a domain or does it allows you to use non-conventional kind of endings for your domain name so
not just dot com and look into all sorts of weird things like dot our DOT I O dot SEO.
And it's kind of a trend nowadays that more and more companies are using that.
Nevermind what those crazy like Indigo's mean they need something totally weird iOS Indian Ocean.
Your thing is you're a Tria doesn't really matter.
It's becoming more and more the norm.
So now if you've done all of this and you also just cannot come up with anything you can do it.
We did it actually from our second name and if you go to crowd spring dot com you actually can run a
contest on naming your business what you do is you basically describe how you want it to make you feel
what it's going to do.
What's special about you.
Anything you want to take into consideration into your name and you can get hundreds and hundreds of
name suggestions.
We spent $180 and got 450 suggestions.
That's how we came up with Sprint kick actually.
And in that one you can obviously say like the domain has to be available.
So you don't waste any time with ones aren't available.
Sprinkle it was really easy for us actually because we use an agile development methodology and it's
called scrub and scrub.
You use what's called a sprint.
And so every chunk of work we do is called us rent and we cover this later in the course whether or
not you should use agile and if you do want to use you know how to implement that in your development.
But it makes sense because Sprint implies moving forward quickly.
And Sprint will like a play on words because we deliver in spreads.
Ok guys I'm not great at coming up with names I'll be honest but if you do need help just post in a
group discussion we can all try to collaborate.
Help us help each other out just a little bit.
Don't get stuck on this for too long and honestly if you get really stuck and you don't spend money.
Try using a stopgap name just something silly that you can work with until you have some inspiration
down the road.
All right see the next lecture.